Owing to the part of making this actually
do something, we're gonna need some help.
Because I said we wanna be
able to hit the Reddit API and
then we want to be able to
process that information and
then open up a random post from
the Reddit API into our browsers.
That's a lot of work that I'll probably
not gonna reinvent from scratch.
I'm definitely not gonna use
the natives HTTP module and
open up like socket connections and manage
that and, no, I'm not gonna do that.
I'm just gonna rely on some
people smarter than me,
who already created some really
nice packages that I can install.
And we're gonna do that, so
I have the packages listed here.
And what we're gonna do is,
we're gonna install one code open,
one code node fetch and one code yarks.
So we talk about these very quick.
So open literally takes a URL and
it opens it up on your default
browser on your computer.
So that's what's going to open it for us.
Really cool.
Node fetch is exactly like window dot
fetch, if you've ever used that before,
it's just the nodes polyfill version
of that, so it works the same way.
And then yargs is basically a function
that's going to interpret and
in process, I don't use that word,
somebody use it twice.
It's gonna interpret
the process objects for us.
So we need to get access to things like
flags and arguments to a Reddit CLI.
Because I do wanna pass an argument,
I'm sorry, I wanna pass a flag to it.
That's gonna allow us to
bypass opening the browser and
instead just print it out on the terminal.
Maybe I don't want my browser to be
opened as my boss is over my shoulder.
But I just wanna print it out on
the terminal, so I can see it.
So we can just pass the flag that
says like print instead of open and
that's what we wanna do.
So we wanna be able to
interpret that a little easier.
So we'll use yargs for that.
So follow along with me, but I also have
all the code here that you can copy and
paste, but I'm pretty much
just gonna go through this,
and then we'll figure it out.
So first thing is,
let's get our imports going.
So we're gonna import,
we're gonna say fetch.
Well actually, before we import,
let's actually do our install, right?
So let's say npm install, and by the way,
you can do I for short for install.
So you can say install or you can just
say in npm I, which is less characters.
So npm I node fetch,
we have open and then we have yargs.
I'm gonna save those.
And remember, save puts it in our
dependencies, which we have here.
Boom, we got our dependencies,
we're good to go.
And now I'm gonna import them, so
I'm gonna say, fetch from, no fetch.
I'm gonna say open from open,
and then yargs from yargs.
I think yargs, I did have a problem with
the interrupt between common j s and
yes six, I'm just go look to
make sure I got that one right,
I guess it was fine muslin
Southern I was doing.
Okay, the next thing we wanna do is,
let's try to process any potential
arguments we might pass on and
like I said,
I did wanna pass in a print flag that's
gonna bypass the opening of the browser.
And depending on what that,
whether that's passed or not,
that's gonna determine
what other logic we have.
So we should probably process that
first because we need that information.
So I'm going to do something called,
say yargs.
And that's a function and
I can pass in process dot argv.
And basically what this is,
just to I wonder if I can log this.
Yeah, I can log this,
I'll try to think if there's gonna
be anything sensitive on there.
Yeah, I'm gonna just log this for
you so you can see what it is.
So process.argv, and
then I think you'll get the idea.
So we don't have to install a CLI again,
It's already linked.
It's a live file so
we can just run the read command again.
So you can see proces.argv,
it returns an array.
The first two things are always gonna be
the path to the interpreter which is note,
and then a path to the CLI,
which is Reddit, and
everything else after that it's
gonna be like arguments and flags.
So for instance, if I wanna say Reddit,
then I wanna say print, like that.
You can see it's passing as a third index,
index number two into this array,
or if I wanted to pass an argument like,
hello,
you can see that it literally goes
in order from left to right, right?
That's how it works.
What yargs is gonna do, it's going to
process this and put it in an object for
us in a key value way,
That way we can use it a lot easier.
But there's nothing stopping us
from just doing RGV Bracket,
split everything before,
split everything after these first two and
just grabbed stuff here that
works just as fine as well.
I just wanna show you a really nice
package that I use all the time.
So we're going to process that,
we're gonna get the RGV here.
Like I said, this is going to be an object
with whatever flags was passed in,
so we got that.
The next thing we wannna do is we
want to make a call to Reddit.
So if you go to Reddit.com and
if you go to slash dot Jason,
you actually get the Jason output
of the entire front page of Reddit.
Like that.
It's really cool.
So we should look at this and
make this bigger.
So look at this for a little bit because
we need to understand the data structure
because we're gonna query this.
So we get back an object with a data
property that has a children property,
that's an array of children and
each child has a data property.
And on that data property, there should be
a URL that we want and
I wanna say it's called,
have it somewhere, permalink, yeah.
So I wanna get the permalink of
whatever child we're gonna open,
and that's what I wanna get and
I'll pin that to reddit.com,
slash that sub Reddit, slash whatever.
So that's how we're going to
get our random thing there.
So let's make a call to the Reddit API.
And the way we're gonna
do that is using fetch.
So I'm gonna say fetch,
or I'm gonna say rez for
response equals await fetch.
And fetch is gonna take that URL here.
So reddit.com/.Json.
And if you've never used fetch in
the browser before, it actually doesn't
return the data, it returns a response
object that has status codes,
error messages,
different things like that.
And if we want the data from that
we have to resolve the promise
of turning it into JSON,
which is permissified, so
that we can get the data which will
be data equals await res.json.
So we'll get that, and
just to make sure we are at closer,
we will log this, so we do that and boom.
What did I log?
I logged res sorry, is log data.
Okay, so you can see we got the same
data that we had in the browser.
Obviously, it's not gonna print
all the objects here, but
you can see it's hidden Reddit,
it's good to go.
And just to show you just how
quickly we were able to do this,
we imported three things and we're already
hitting the Reddit API and getting data.
That's really impressive because we
were able to leverage the community and
different things like that.
We got to do all this ourselves, we'd be
like close to 100 lines of code right now,
especially hitting the API.
I'm exaggerating a little bit, not that
much, but still not as clean as this.
Cool.
So now we got the data.
The next thing that we wanna do
is we want to get a random posts.
So we'll say posts,
let's get a random index.
And a random index would be, so
data.data.children bracket.
Okay, let's do this first let's save this
in a variable, children equals that.
And then now we can say
let's get children.
Was that math.randomchosen.length?
Width?
No, it's math.random and then math.floor.
Children.length times,
you know what, I already have this,
why am I trying to do this math right now?
Let's copy this.
There we go.
So this is what we wanna do.
I do the random stuff all the time,
I think I remember this but I don't.
Okay, so we're gonna say,
there it is, I was way wrong.
We wanna, math.floor, math.random
times children.length, there we go.
So this will give us a random child and
the child array.
You could do ceiling if you want to,
but floor is fine.
So now we got our random index.
And now what you wanna do is just,
or actually this is a random post.
Now what we wanna do is decide if we need
to open this post in the browser, or
if we just wanna print
out something about it.
So what we can do is we can say
if(argv.print), so if someone passes
into print flag they will be one of
those who just wanna cancel that post.
So we'll do something like this.
We'll say, title is random posts.title,
I'm assuming as a title there will look
if it's not then link would be,
let's make a link variable here.
The link is gonna be
HTTPS reddit.com slash.
We're actually i think the permalink
has a leading slash and
I dont feel like cleaning all that up,
so we'll just trust it, so be that.
That'd be the link and
then we'll just say, link like that.
And then else,
we'll say open the link, like that.
So let's try it out.
Let's see if we can get this to
print with a random post and
then we'll try to open it up.
So we'll say hello,
we don't need that, get rid of that.
But I'll say print and boom,
titles I did guess on that so
that wasn't gonna work.
And then obviously this needs
to be permalink or its data,
that's why, permalink,
and this is data.title.
So let's try that again.
There we go.
So we have title,
you see there's a title of a random posts
from the front page of Reddit and
here is the URL that is messed
up because it's not permalink,
it must be something else.
It's not camel case, okay.
There we go.
Let's try that again.
So we got our link here, and
then we got something about the dot
lines pretending to be hurt.
[LAUGH] Okay, that sounds pretty cute.
And it's random every time, so
if we do it again, we get another one.
Now let's try to open
this up in our browser.
So, how do we do that?
Just don't pass the print flag and
we should be able to do that.
So I'm gonna exclude the print flag,
and I will do that, and bam,
it just opened up in my default browser
which for me is Firefox, don't judge me.
And I'm not gonna scroll down and
hit play on that but
you get the point,
it opened it up to it, and it works.
So really good CLI, feel like Reddit,
and you don't feel like gonna Reddit,
you wanna see something random.
There you go, you can just type in
Reddit and get a random thing today and
check it out.
So let's just go back and reflect on
the code that we wrote a little bit,
just to try to understand
it a little more.
So we have this hash bang here that
tells us to interpret this file in
the node environment.
We installed these three node modules.
And then moving on we were able to
use yargs which was able to process
the options and arguments passed
into whatever CLI has been executed,
in this case, the Reddit CLI.
We use the fetch function here to
communicate with the Reddit API and
get some data.
We process that data, did some random
indexing here that I struggled with,
and we created a link
to that random posts.
And then we just did a check to see if
someone passed in the print flag or not.
If they did, just do a log,
if they didn't, open it up in the browser.
And that's it, and
then the process was stopped,
it exited down here with
a process of exit of zero.
There was no other code to run,
there are no more background tasks,
there's nothing scheduled.
So it bottomed out and
there was no more text to be ticked.
And it just stopped and our code was done
executing, even though the browser open.
And that's basically what happened.
So, as you can see, you can get
pretty powerful here with a CLI,
knowing what you know about file systems,
and
the fact that we did that
interpolation on the HTML file.
Knowing what you know about CLI's now, you
can probably start putting together how
some of the really good front
end tools that you use work.
Webpack as CLI also use the file system.
You just did both.
So you're really starting to see how
these technologies work together,
how powerful they can be.
And this is just a glimpse,
if you really wanna make a good CLI,
you probably wanna use a CLI framework.
Just like there's front end frameworks,
there's like frameworks for
everything else I'll know too.
There's CLI frameworks, there's API
frameworks, there's testing frameworks,
just like react as a front end framework,
there's frameworks for stuff here as well.
So I would encourage you to see if there
is something out there before you try
to build something from scratch.
I personally wouldn't build an API or
a CLI like this.
I would use a framework that
has like way better support and
handling and help message and automations
all types of really nice stuff.
But just let you know that even if
you did do it, it's not so bad.
So any questions on the CLI?
The question was, if you have
an object and it logs, object objects,
how do you see that?
Let's first talk about why it does
that and and how we can get around it.
So, I'm just gonna make a new
file here called test a yes, and
I'm gonna make an object and
we'll make another object and
I'm gonna make another object like this,
and then we'll put something in here.
Okay, and
then what we'll do is we'll log this.
So, node Test a yes.
Okay.
Wait, that logged all of it.
Of course it did.
Let me make another one.
Okay, let's try that.
There we go.
Okay, I know how to get deep.
So as you saw, I tried to log it the first
time to get it to do the object object and
it didn't, then I added one more layer and
then it did.
So at some point, the logging
mechanism in node is like, okay,
you're just going really deep
on all these objects, so
we're just not gonna log all of them,
I'm just gonna paraphrase for you.
That's basically what's happening
when you have like a certain level of
hierarchy of data.
No GS tries to simplify the output of
your logs by just paraphrasing the hey,
there's an object here,
there's a sub object.
And it's actually really helpful,
especially for
like streaming these logs which you can.
You can stream logs from node and to like
some provider that you're paying for,
a lot of big companies pay millions of
dollars per year to have their logs
stored, and some even per month
like big budgets to store logs.
So the less logs there are, the less
things that are being logged, the less
you're being charged and the faster
that they are and also just less noisy.
When you're really building an application
and you have your development server up,
you got a lot of stuff to streaming and
piping in.
And you're really only concerned
about the thing that you logged and
not all the sub things about it.
So it's just a nice way
to clean that up as well.
But like you said, sometimes you
do want to be able to see it, so
how do you get around it?
Well, there's two options.
Well, you just log a little
closer to what you want.
So instead of logging O,
I might log o dot u dot L, and
then now I'm able to see that because I
logged a little closer, so that's one way.
The other ways you can do
json.stringify and then pass in O, and
then pass in no and then you can pass it
like how many indent spaces you want.
I like to indent by two, so I can do that,
and then it'll print it out like that,
the whole thing.
It won't be nice and beautiful and
colored, like the rest of the output is
because you're technically just logging
a string, but it'll be formatted and
it'll show every single thing all
the way down to the, closest child.
So those are the two ways
you can get around that.
>> You were passing flags, right?
Like reducing double hyphens
can be passed parameters
choosing just one hyphen and
does recognize that?
>> Absolutely.
So we can do the same thing, so I can say,
argv.prince, or argv.p right?
So let's try that.
So, if I say, do that.
And I think maybe capital P.
There we go.
Yeah, so if it's a capital with
a shorthand, then it will Reddit for you.